[Concept Entry] Git Restore (#3802)
Codecademy/docs: content/git/concepts/restore/restore.md

---
Title: 'Restore'
Description: 'The git restore command undoes changes in the working tree by restoring content from a source.'
Subjects:
  - 'Bash/Shell'
  - 'Developer Tools'
Tags:
  - 'Git'
  - 'Version Control'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-the-command-line'
  - 'learn-git'
---

> The **`restore`** command enables developers to restore files to a specific state. This functionality allows you to undo any changes made to files in both your working directory and staging area. This command is especially valuable when you need to revert alterations, whether they have been staged for a commit or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`restore`** command enables developers to restore files to a specific state. This functionality allows restoring any changes made to files in both the working directory and staging area. This command is particularly valuable when reverting alterations, whether staged for a commit or not.
```
We don't prefer using pro nouns

> The **`restore`** command is a versatile tool that enables developers to restore files to a specific state. This functionality allows you to undo any changes made to files in both your working directory and staging area. This command is especially valuable when you need to revert alterations, whether they have been staged for a commit or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`restore`** command enables developers to restore files to a specific state. This functionality allows you to undo any changes made to files in both your working directory and staging area. This command is especially valuable when you need to revert alterations, whether they have been staged for a commit or not.
```

## Syntax

The syntax of the `git restore` command is as follows:

> ```shell
> git restore <options> -- <file>
> ```

Reviewer 3: Since this focuses more on the syntax, it would be best to describe it as `pseudo` code. 

```suggestion
```pseudo
git restore <options> -- <file>
```
```

## Example

> 

Reviewer 3: [suggestion] Consider putting a code snippet that often uses the `restore` command. That way developers and other people who use coding can see how it is used.  
```suggestion
add new code snippet here
```

Author: Hi! Thank you for your suggestion. I believe that I have added a `git restore`code snippet example below the explanation. Could you please explain it to me in more detail?

Reviewer 3: Hi @krushnarout, I modified my comment. Check it out

> In this example, the initial [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) command shows that there are changes in the `index.html` file that have not been staged for a commit. It suggests using [`git add`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add) to stage these changes. However, the user decides to use `git restore index.html` to discard the changes in the working directory and revert the file to its last committed state. After running this command and checking [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) again, the working directory is now clean, indicating that there are no pending changes, and there's nothing left to commit.

Reviewer 3: [suggestion] From there, you can modify the description based on your new code snippet
```suggestion
In this example, the initial [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) command shows that there are changes in the `index.html` file that have not been staged for a commit. It suggests using [`git add`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add) to stage these changes. However, the user decides to use `git restore index.html` to discard the changes in the working directory and revert the file to its last committed state. After running this command and checking [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) again, the working directory is now clean, indicating that there are no pending changes, and there's nothing left to commit.
```

> In this example, the initial [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) command shows that there are changes in the `index.html` file that have not been staged for a commit. It suggests using [`git add`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add) to stage these changes. However, the user decides to use `git restore index.html` to discard the changes in the working directory and revert the file to its last committed state. After running this command and checking [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) again, the working directory is now clean, indicating that there are no pending changes, and there's nothing left to commit.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the above example, the initial [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) command shows that there are changes in the `index.html` file that have not been staged for a commit. It suggests using [`git add`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add) to stage these changes. However, the user decides to use `git restore index.html` to discard the changes in the working directory and revert the file to its last committed state. After running this command and checking [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) again, the working directory is now clean, indicating that there are no pending changes, and there's nothing left to commit.
```

> There are nine additional options for `git restore`:
> 
> - `-s <tree> --source=<tree>`: This option allows you to restore the working tree files with the content from the given tree.
> - `-p --patch`: This option allows you to interactively select hunks in the difference between the restore source and the restore location.
> - `-W --worktree -S --staged`: These options specify the restore location. If neither option is specified, by default the working tree is restored.
> - `-q --quiet`: This option suppresses feedback messages and implies `--no-progress`.
> - `--progress --no-progress`: These options control progress status reporting.
> - `--ours --theirs`: These options are used when restoring files in the working tree from the index, to use stage #2 (ours) or #3 (theirs) for unmerged paths.
> - `-m --merge`: This option recreates the conflicted merge in the unmerged paths when restoring files on the working tree from the index.
> - `--conflict=<style>`: This option changes the way conflicting hunks are presented, overriding the `merge.conflictStyle` configuration variable.
> - `--ignore-unmerged`: This option allows you to restore files on the working tree from the index without aborting if there are unmerged entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nine additional options are available for `git restore`:

- `-s <tree> --source=<tree>`: Allows restoring the working tree files with content from the specified tree.
- `-p --patch`: Enables interactive selection of hunks between the restore source and location.
- `-W --worktree -S --staged`: Specifies the restore location. If neither is specified, the working tree is restored by default.
- `-q --quiet`: Suppresses feedback messages and implies `--no-progress`.
- `--progress --no-progress`: Controls progress status reporting.
- `--ours --theirs`: Used when restoring files in the working tree from the index, to use stage #2 (ours) or #3 (theirs) for unmerged paths.
- `-m --merge`: Recreates the conflicted merge in unmerged paths when restoring files to the working tree from the index.
- `--conflict=<style>`: Modifies the presentation of conflicting hunks, overriding the `merge.conflictStyle` configuration variable.
- `--ignore-unmerged`: Allows restoring files to the working tree from the index without aborting due to unmerged entries.
```
refrain from using pronouns

## Example

> In the above example, the initial [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) command shows that there are changes in the `index.html` file that have not been staged for a commit. It suggests using [`git add`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/add) to stage these changes. However, the user decides to use `git restore index.html` to discard the changes in the working directory and revert the file to its last committed state. After running this command and checking [`git status`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/git/status) again, the working directory is now clean, indicating that there are no pending changes, and there's nothing left to commit.

Reviewer: You have mentioned here `In the above example` which above example you are referring to here?

$ git restore index.html

$ git status

On branch main
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```

There are nine additional options for `git restore`:

- `-s <tree> --source=<tree>`: This option allows you to restore the working tree files with the content from the given tree.
- `-p --patch`: This option allows you to interactively select hunks in the difference between the restore source and the restore location.
- `-W --worktree -S --staged`: These options specify the restore location. If neither option is specified, by default the working tree is restored.
- `-q --quiet`: This option suppresses feedback messages and implies `--no-progress`.
- `--progress --no-progress`: These options control progress status reporting.
- `--ours --theirs`: These options are used when restoring files in the working tree from the index, to use stage #2 (ours) or #3 (theirs) for unmerged paths.
- `-m --merge`: This option recreates the conflicted merge in the unmerged paths when restoring files on the working tree from the index.
- `--conflict=<style>`: This option changes the way conflicting hunks are presented, overriding the merge.conflictStyle configuration variable.

> - `--ignore-unmerged`: This option allows you to restore files on the working tree from the index without aborting if there are unmerged entries.

Reviewer 2: Move this below the syntax of the Restore command.

> - `-s <tree> --source=<tree>`: This option allows you to restore the working tree files with the content from the given tree.
> - `-p --patch`: This option allows you to interactively select hunks in the difference between the restore source and the restore location.
> - `-W --worktree -S --staged`: These options specify the restore location. If neither option is specified, by default the working tree is restored.
> - `-q --quiet`: This option suppresses feedback messages and implies `--no-progress`.
> - `--progress --no-progress`: These options control progress status reporting.
> - `--ours --theirs`: These options are used when restoring files in the working tree from the index, to use stage #2 (ours) or #3 (theirs) for unmerged paths.
> - `-m --merge`: This option recreates the conflicted merge in the unmerged paths when restoring files on the working tree from the index.
> - `--conflict=<style>`: This option changes the way conflicting hunks are presented, overriding the merge.conflictStyle configuration variable.
> - `--ignore-unmerged`: This option allows you to restore files on the working tree from the index without aborting if there are unmerged entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `-s <tree> --source=<tree>`: This option allows you to restore the working tree files with the content from the given tree.
- `-p --patch`: This option allows you to interactively select hunks in the difference between the restore source and the restore location.
- `-W --worktree -S --staged`: These options specify the restore location. If neither option is specified, by default the working tree is restored.
- `-q --quiet`: This option suppresses feedback messages and implies `--no-progress`.
- `--progress --no-progress`: These options control progress status reporting.
- `--ours --theirs`: These options are used when restoring files in the working tree from the index, to use stage #2 (ours) or #3 (theirs) for unmerged paths.
- `-m --merge`: This option recreates the conflicted merge in the unmerged paths when restoring files on the working tree from the index.
- `--conflict=<style>`: This option changes the way conflicting hunks are presented, overriding the `merge.conflictStyle` configuration variable.
- `--ignore-unmerged`: This option allows you to restore files on the working tree from the index without aborting if there are unmerged entries.
```
